docs: add kb for instance manager restarted and make volume unstable (#1023)
longhorn/website: content/kb/troubleshooting-instance-manager-pods-are-restarted.md

---

> title: "Troubleshooting: Instance manager pods are restarted"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Troubleshooting: Instance Manager Pods Are Restarted"
```

Author: fixed.

authors:
- "Jack Lin"
draft: false
date: 2024-12-12
versions:
- "all"
categories:
- "instance manager"
---

## Applicable versions

All Longhorn versions.

## Symptoms

The instance manager pods are restarted which leads to a huge amount of iSCSI connection errors.

> As a consequence, Longhorn engines lose the connection to the replicas making the volume unstable.

Author: fixed.

> As the consequence, Longhorn engines lose the connection to the replicas and it makes the volume unstable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a consequence, Longhorn engines lose the connection to the replicas making the volume unstable.
```

Author: fixed, thanks

> You might find iSCSI errors in the Kernel log

Author: fixed.

```
Nov 21 00:54:02 node-xxx kernel:  connection438:0: detected conn error (1020)
Nov 21 00:54:02 node-xxx kernel:  connection437:0: detected conn error (1020)
Nov 21 00:54:02 node-xxx kernel:  connection436:0: detected conn error (1020)
Nov 21 00:54:02 node-xxx kernel:  connection435:0: detected conn error (1020)
Nov 21 00:54:02 node-xxx kernel:  connection434:0: detected conn error (1020)
Nov 21 00:54:02 node-xxx kernel:  connection433:0: detected conn error (1020)
Nov 21 00:54:02 node-xxx kernel:  connection432:0: detected conn error (1020)
....
Nov 21 00:54:02 node-xxx kernel:  connection275:0: detected conn error (1020) 
```

> You might also find that the instance manager container suddenly terminates with logs

Author: fixed.

```
time="2024-11-21T06:12:20.651526777Z" level=info msg="shim disconnected" id=548c02c5bc17426da586373f902e8d5811d5efe4e45d5fbd0495920626d014d9 namespace=k8s.io
time="2024-11-21T06:12:20.651603253Z" level=warning msg="cleaning up after shim disconnected" id=548c02c5bc17426da586373f902e8d5811d5efe4e45d5fbd0495920626d014d9 namespace=k8s.io
time="2024-11-21T06:12:21.819863412Z" level=info msg="Container to stop \"548c02c5bc17426da586373f902e8d5811d5efe4e45d5fbd0495920626d014d9\" must be in running or unknown state, current state \"CONTAINER_EXITED\""
```

## Reason

> The instance manager pod is a critical component responsible for managing the engine and replica processes of the volume. If the instance manager pod becomes unstable and crashes or restarts unexpectedly, the volumes will also become unstable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The instance manager pod is a critical component responsible for managing the engine or replica processes of the volume. If the instance manager pod becomes unstable and crashes or restarts unexpectedly, the volumes will also become unstable.
```

> The instance manager pod is a critical component responsible for managing the engine and replica processes of the volume. If the instance manager pod becomes unstable and crashes or restarts unexpectedly, the volumes will also become unstable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The instance manager pod is a critical component responsible for managing the engine and replica processes of the volume. If the instance manager pod becomes unstable and crashes or restarts unexpectedly, the volumes also become unstable.
```

Author: fixed.

> Here are some common reasons reasons why an instance manager pod is restarted or deleted.

Author: fixed.

> Here are some common reasons why the instance manager pods crash and restart or being deleted.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Here are some common reasons why an instance manager pod is restarted or deleted.
```

Author: fixed.

### High CPU Loading

> The instance manager pod has a liveness probe configured to periodically check the health of the server inside the pod.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The instance manager pod has a liveness probe configured to periodically check the health of the servers inside the pod.
```

Author: fixed.

> One potential cause of instability is an excessive number of replica and engine processes running within the pod, which can overload the server and prevent it from responding to the liveness probe in time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One potential cause of instability is an excessive number of replica or engine processes running within the pod, which can overload the server and prevent it from responding to the liveness probe in time.
```

> One potential cause of instability is an excessive number of replica and engine processes running within the pod, which can overload the server and prevent it from responding to the liveness probe in time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One potential cause of instability is an excessive number of replica or engine processes running within the pod. This can overload the server and prevent it from responding to the liveness probe in time.
```

Author: fixed.

This may cause the liveness probe to fail, prompting Kubernetes to either restart the container or terminate the pod.

The solution is to monitor CPU, memory, and network usage in the Kubernetes cluster. When resource usage is too high, consider adding more computing resources, such as adding nodes or expanding the CPU and memory capacity of existing nodes in the cluster.

> You can also refer to the [Replica Auto Balance](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.7.2/references/settings/#replica-auto-balance) setting to better balance the load across each node.

Author: fixed.

### Old Instance Manager Pod Terminated.

> When you upgrade Longhorn to a new version, a new instance manager with an updated image and engine image will be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you upgrade Longhorn to a new version, a new instance manager with an updated image and engine image is created.
```

Author: fixed.

> However, Longhorn waits until all volumes are upgraded to the new engine image and no replica or engine processes are running on the old instance manager before deleting it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
However, Longhorn waits until all volumes are upgraded to the new engine image and no replica or engine processes are running on the old instance manager pod before deleting it.
```

Author: fixed.

In this case, the terminating of the instance manager is expected.

> You can refer to the [Upgrade](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.7.2/deploy/upgrade/) guide to learn how to upgrade volumes and understand how the transition process works.

Author: fixed.

### Danger Zone Setting Updated

There are several settings in [Danger Zone](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.7.2/references/settings/#danger-zone) which will need to restart the system-managed components (for example, Instance Manager, CSI Driver, and engine images) to apply the settings. 

> Longhorn does not restart instance manager pods while volumes are still attached. It waits until all volumes are detached.

Author: fixed.

## Related information

> * Longhorn issue: https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/9851

Author: fixed.

> Longhorn will not restart the instance manager pod while replicas and engines are still running. This means you must detach all volumes before the settings can be synchronized. If the settings are not applied, you will need to reconfigure them after detaching the remaining volumes."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Longhorn does not restart instance manager pods while volumes are still attached. It waits until all volumes are detached.
```

Author: fixed.
